


# V 30.0.0
## feature-switch-to-cf-deployment
This feature will switch traffic from cloudfoundry deployment(under ops-deps) to cf deployment (under master-deps)

For ops :
* Perform a shield backup for **cf_datastores_postgres_backup** (shield job name to be launch)
* from bastion, target bosh-ops , perform a bosh stop for cloudfoundry deployment and diego deployment
* Under concourse (ops-deps), stop cloudfoundry and diego from being deployed (concourse deployment pause)

after merging :

*  You need to update the nats host and the nats password under the shared/secrets.yml
  * nats_host : get the ip from the cf deployment (under master-deps) ==> ip adresse from nats vm (choose one of 2 available nats vm)
  * nats_password : get it using the following command :  credhub get --name /bosh-master/cf/nats_password
* redeploy the credhub seeder deployment (under micro-deps) using concourse

Be careful : you will not be able to use concourse login with uaa during this feature (use atc account to login under concourse while merging)

Note : The shared/secrets.yml should propagate the new nats password on all related deployments. If any other deployment is failing after switching to cf deployment, you have to redeploy each one of theme

Risk: io saturation when 27cells will pull a thousand droplets from master-depls/cloud-foundry-datastore/minios-s3. Will use max-in-flight > 1. Monitor the master-depls/cloudfoundry-datatore minio vm performance during the cf apps redeployment.

rollback:
- under master-deps/cf : bosh delete-deployment
- rollback the switch commit
- under ops-deps/cloudfoundry and ops-deps/diego : bosh delete-deployment
- bosh deploy for cloudfoundry then for diego (using concourse)
  Be careful : dot not run the bosh deploy for diego only after finishing the cloudfoundry deployment.

Impact:
- API. 3 hours unavailbility
- APPS. projects apps wont be avaiable for 3 hours. Operators must communicate on the maintenance window

Post install: after a successfull switch (~24h correct run on the new configuration), operators can delete ops-depls/cloudfoundry and ops-depls/cloudfoundry-diego deployments to free unused iaas resources.