# V 33.0.0

## Cf-Ops-Automation upgrade to v 3.0.0
A [cf-ops-automation](https://github.com/orange-opensource/cf-ops-automation) bump to version [3.0.0](https://github.com/orange-cloudfoundry/cf-ops-automation/releases/tag/v3.0.0) or higher is recommended.

To upgrade COA, adjust concourse credentials like below:
```yaml
cf-ops-automation-uri: https://github.com/orange-cloudfoundry/cf-ops-automation.git
cf-ops-automation-branch: master
cf-ops-automation-tag-filter: v3.0.0
```

**Upgrade notes** ([3.0.x](https://github.com/orange-cloudfoundry/cf-ops-automation/releases/tag/v3.0.0) release notes):
this version provides a script to add missing configuration to pipeline in order to be able to use #89. To upgrade
 config repository to the new syntax, simply run upgrade/v3.0.0/01-upgrade-config.rb from cf-ops-automation root-directory
 with required parameters. It is possible to go from 2.x to 3.x, but you need to run migration scripts for each version.

Recommended upgrade path:
1. run cf-ops-automation upgrade script:  `upgrade/v3.0.0/01-upgrade-config.rb`
2. check, amend/commit changes to secrets repository
3. update COA version
4. trigger bootstrap-update-pipeline / use concourse-bootstrap script
5. if `update-pipeline-xx` are failing , trigger `bootstrap-init-pipelines` job after all job failure

## Cf-Ops-Automation upgrade to v 2.2.0
A [cf-ops-automation](https://github.com/orange-opensource/cf-ops-automation) bump to version [2.2.x](https://github.com/orange-cloudfoundry/cf-ops-automation/releases/tag/v2.2.0) or higher is recommended.

To upgrade COA, adjust concourse credentials like below:
```yaml
cf-ops-automation-uri: https://github.com/orange-cloudfoundry/cf-ops-automation.git
cf-ops-automation-branch: master
cf-ops-automation-tag-filter: v2.2.0
```

**Upgrade notes** ([2.2.x](https://github.com/orange-cloudfoundry/cf-ops-automation/releases/tag/v2.2.0) release notes):

this version provides a script to cleanup useless secrets, since concourse 3.9.2, custom certificates are inherited from
 bosh. We don't requires secrets related that configuration. To upgrade config repository to the new syntax, simply run
 `upgrade/v2.2.0/01-upgrade-config.rb` from cf-ops-automation root-directory with required parameters.

## feature-hoxfix-align-diego-rep
Feature hoxfix align diego rep. Fixes https://github.com/orange-cloudfoundry/paas-templates/issues/87

- Uses cf-deployment submodule, and heavily prune cf-deployment to generate conformant diego-cells and go router. This should help later easy bumping of cf-deployment versions, for master-depls/cf and master-depls/isolation-segment-internet.
- add dedicated smoke-test errand to test isolation segment

Align isolation segment cells with master-depls/cf diego-cells
- missing intranet ca_cert
- missing cf-dot
- cf-networking components: set silk-daemon on cells, activate networking on master-deps/cf

references:
- https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-networking-release/blob/develop/docs/arch.md

## feature-use-bosh-dns-for-openstack-hws-relay-to-routers
Use bosh-dns for api https and cf ssh wiring to gorouters
- align with master-depls/gin-efa-relay
- bosh-dns ensure wiring is ok without defining gorouters ip
- but haproxy sees a single backend, so we must disable dns caching so haproxy request frequently ips from bosh dns to get a fresh backend ips

## feature-stratos-v2
Deploy a new distinct version of the Stratos Console (in addition to stable V1), running the V2 version, with the Orange branding.

Leverages https://github.com/orange-cloudfoundry/orange-component-CF-UI2

## feature-hotfix-blobstore-purge-droplet
Fixes a blobstore configuration issue on cc_worker instance group : minio credentials prevented droplet purge since v30, see https://github.com/orange-cloudfoundry/paas-templates/issues/91

A custom version of the community operator use-s3-blobstore.yml has been created, to be able to define globally the path style and aws api version level. Should be PRed to cf-deployment.

## feature-ldap-bosh-master

### Feature content
Update bosh-master director:
- [x] Add uaa/ldap features to director
- [x] Update secrets repository ***generateCerts.sh*** script for certs and keys generation for bosh-master director 
- [x] Use bosh-deployment template for creating director, with operators
- [x] Use crehub to variabilize bosh director parameters

### To do (ops)
- After deployment, connect to **docker-bosh-cli** and get bosh-master admin password

```
$ log-credhub
$ credhub g -n /micro-bosh/bosh-master/admin_password
```

- Edit ***micro-depls/concourse-master/pipelines/credentials-master-depls-pipeline.yml*** file in secrets repository and update password with previous value

```
bosh-password: redacted_password
```

- Edit ***master-depls/ci-deployment-overview.yml*** (add blank line) for concourse triggering

- Commit your updates and push it to remote repository

- Retrigger all jobs in **master-depls**

- Empty properties in ***meta.yml*** and ***secrets.yml*** files in ***/micro-depls/bosh-master/secrets*** directory from secrets repository
```
meta:
```
```
secrets:
```

:warning: When you use ***log-bosh*** from the `docker bosh cli`, if you have an error `401`, delete bosh configuration
```
$ rm ~/.bosh/config
```

## feature-credhub-micro-ha
new deployment in micro-depls:
- replace micro-depls/credhub (not ha) and master-depls/credhub (ha but master-depls location induces cyclic dependency issues when updating)
- bump credhub version from 1.0.2 to 1.9.3 see https://github.com/pivotal-cf/credhub-release/releases/tag/1.9.3

prerequisites:
- have latest credhub cli 1.7.5 on bastion docker-bosh-cli
  - https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/credhub-cli/releases/tag/1.7.5

Manual steps:
- create the micro-depls/credhub-ha/secrets dir in secrets repo. Reuse source credhub deployment certificates
- manually create the s3 backup bucket (xxx- credhub-ha)
- export the content of current credhub
```
credhub login
credhub export > credhub-export.yml
```
- switch the credhub.internal.paas and credhub-uaa.internal.paas private dns to the new ips (192.168.116.107 and  192.168.116.108) with terraform.

- trigger dns ttl expiration.
```
bosh recreate micro-depls/docker-bosh-cli, bosh recreate micro-depls/credhub-ha
```

- import the credhub content
```
credhub login (same url, but backend changed, need new oauth token
credhub import -fcredhub-export.yml
```
- if ok, disable the previsous credhub bosh deployment
